Exempt `__repr__`s, `__slots__` and other `@attrs.define` related changes from compatibility policy. (#1406)
twisted/twisted: docs/core/development/policy/compatibility-policy.rst

**Every change is unique.**

Sometimes, we'll want to make a change that fits with this spirit of this document (keeping Twisted working for applications which rely upon it) but may not fit with the letter of the procedure described above (the change modifies behavior of an existing API sufficiently that something might break).

> Generally, the reason that one would want to do this is to give applications a performance enhancement or bug fix that could break behavior that unanticipated, hypothetical uses of an existing API, but we don't want well-behaved applications to pay the penalty of a deprecation/adopt-a-new-API/removal cycle in order to get the benefits of the improvement if they don't need to.

Reviewer: I don't this this is more accurate

Author: ?

Author: @wsanchez ?

Reviewer: I don't think that `in undesirable` is more accurate than `that unanticipated,`, so I'm not sure that change is appropriate.  "undesirable" is highly subjective, for starters.

Perhaps "unintended" is better?

> Generally, the reason that one would want to do this is to give applications a performance enhancement or bug fix that could break behavior in undesirable hypothetical uses of an existing API, but we don't want well-behaved applications to pay the penalty of a deprecation/adopt-a-new-API/removal cycle in order to get the benefits of the improvement if they don't need to.

Author: ```suggestion
Generally, the reason that one would want to do this is to give applications a performance enhancement or bug fix that could break behavior in unintended hypothetical uses of an existing API, but we don't want well-behaved applications to pay the penalty of a deprecation/adopt-a-new-API/removal cycle in order to get the benefits of the improvement if they don't need to.
```

Test code and test helpers are considered private API and should not be imported outside
of the Twisted testing infrastructure.
As an exception to this, :api:`twisted.test.proto_helpers` is considered a public API

> (see `#6435 <https://twistedmatrix.com/trac/ticket/6435>`_ for more discussion).

Reviewer: Did this thinking on this change? Seems unrelated to the topic…

Author: @wsanchez https://freenode.logbot.info/twisted-dev/20201015#c5467846

Reviewer: okie dokie

New Attributes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

New code may also be added.
Applications must not depend on the output of the ``dir()`` function on any object remaining stable, nor on any object's ``__all__`` attribute, nor on any object's ``__dict__`` not having new keys added to it.
These may happen in any maintenance or bugfix release, no matter how minor.

Pickling
^^^^^^^^

Even though Python objects can be pickled and unpickled without explicit support for this, whether a particular pickled object can be unpickled after any particular change to the implementation of that object is less certain.
Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide pickle compatibility between any release unless the object explicitly documents this as a feature it has.

Representations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The printable representations of objects, as returned by ``repr(<object>)`` and defined by ``def __repr__(self):`` are for debugging and informational purposes.
Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide repr compatibility between any release.

> Descriptors, Slots and Weak References
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: ```suggestion
Descriptors and Slots
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

Author: ```suggestion
Attribute Access
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

That means that no application may ever rely on, for example, the value of any **func_code** object's **co_code** attribute remaining stable, or the **checksum** of a .py file remaining stable.

**Docstrings** may also change at any time.

> Applications must not depend on any Twisted class, module, or method's ``__doc__`` attribute to remain the same.

Author: ```suggestion
Applications must not depend on any Twisted class, module, or method's metadata attributes such as ``__module__``, ``__name__``, ``__qualname__``, ``__annotations__`` and ``__doc__`` to remain the same.
```

https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/3.8/Lib/functools.py#L31

Reviewer 2: Eh, `__module__`, `__name__` and `__qualname__` should be stable across releases, I think.

I agree with `__annotations__`: the current annotations are rough first estimates and it's likely a significant number of them will be updated as Twisted itself and projects using Twisted increase their static type checking coverage.

Author: > Eh, `__module__`, `__name__` and `__qualname__` should be stable across releases, I think.

That would disallow moving a function or class to another module, and aliasing it for compatibility purposes

Reviewer 2: Ah, that makes sense. There is a lot of aliasing in Twisted already to export things from private modules, so those metadata fields are probably not very predictable anyway.

New Attributes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

New code may also be added.
Applications must not depend on the output of the ``dir()`` function on any object remaining stable, nor on any object's ``__all__`` attribute, nor on any object's ``__dict__`` not having new keys added to it.
These may happen in any maintenance or bugfix release, no matter how minor.

Pickling
^^^^^^^^

Even though Python objects can be pickled and unpickled without explicit support for this, whether a particular pickled object can be unpickled after any particular change to the implementation of that object is less certain.
Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide pickle compatibility between any release unless the object explicitly documents this as a feature it has.

Representations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The printable representaions of objects, as returned by ``repr(object)`` and defined by ``def __repr__(self):`` are for debugging and informational purposes.

Reviewer 2: Maybe write `repr(obj)` or `repr(...)` instead of `repr(object)` to avoid confusion with the `object` builtin. Although I don't think that kind of confusion is very likely.

Author: ```suggestion
The printable representations of objects, as returned by ``repr(obj, /)`` and defined by ``def __repr__(self):`` are for debugging and informational purposes.
```

Author: I went for the notation from `help(repr)`

Reviewer 2: The `repr(<something>)` phrase is an example of a call, while `/` is only valid as part of a definition, so I don't think it makes sense to use it here.

> Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide repr compatibility between any release.

Author: this also allows for renaming functions and methods and providing an alias.

Reviewer: Hrm.  I think there are cases where changing the result of `str(obj)` is problematic…. That said I agree that it's usually not the case.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
descriptors, slots and weakrefs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
How an object's attributes are defined and accessed is considered an implementation detail.
To allow backwards compatibility and attribute may be moved from the instance ``__dict__`` into
an ``@property`` or other descriptor based accessor.

Assigning attributes to a constructed object, or monkey patching, is not considered a public use. This is to allow creating frozen and/or slotted classes. However if an object is weak referencable, an application may relay on it to remain weak referencable
Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide ``__dict__`` or ``__slots__`` compatibility between any release.
```

**Docstrings** may also change at any time.
Applications must not depend on any Twisted class, module, or method's metadata attributes such as ``__module__``, ``__name__``, ``__qualname__``, ``__annotations__`` and ``__doc__`` to remain the same.

New Attributes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

New code may also be added.
Applications must not depend on the output of the ``dir()`` function on any object remaining stable, nor on any object's ``__all__`` attribute, nor on any object's ``__dict__`` not having new keys added to it.
These may happen in any maintenance or bugfix release, no matter how minor.

Pickling
^^^^^^^^

Even though Python objects can be pickled and unpickled without explicit support for this, whether a particular pickled object can be unpickled after any particular change to the implementation of that object is less certain.
Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide pickle compatibility between any release unless the object explicitly documents this as a feature it has.

Representations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The printable representations of objects, as returned by ``repr(obj, /)`` and defined by ``def __repr__(self):`` are for debugging and informational purposes.

Author: ```suggestion
The printable representations of objects, as returned by ``repr(<object>)`` and defined by ``def __repr__(self):`` are for debugging and informational purposes.
```

Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide repr compatibility between any release.

> descriptors, slots and weakrefs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Descriptors, Slots and Weak References
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
How an object's attributes are defined and accessed is considered an implementation detail.

> To allow backwards compatibility and attribute may be moved from the instance ``__dict__`` into

Author: ```suggestion
To allow backwards compatibility an attribute may be moved from the instance ``__dict__`` into
```

> To allow backwards compatibility an attribute may be moved from the instance ``__dict__`` into
> an ``@property`` or other descriptor based accessor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To allow backwards compatibility, an attribute may be moved from the instance ``__dict__`` into an ``@property`` or other descriptor based accessor.
```
Semantic newlines, etc etc (and an extra `,`)

> Adding new attributes to a constructed object, or monkey patching, is not considered a public use. This is to allow creating slotted classes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adding new attributes to a constructed object, or monkey patching, is not considered a public use. This restriction allows both creating and converting to slotted classes.
```

> Assigning attributes to a constructed object, or monkey patching, is not considered a public use. This is to allow creating frozen and/or slotted classes. However if an object is weak referencable, an application may relay on it to remain weak referencable

Author: ```suggestion
Assigning attributes to a constructed object, or monkey patching, is not considered a public use. This is to allow creating frozen and/or slotted classes. However if an object is weak referencable, an application may depend on it remaining weak referencable
```

> Assigning attributes to a constructed object, or monkey patching, is not considered a public use. This is to allow creating frozen and/or slotted classes. However if an object is weak referencable, an application may depend on it remaining weak referencable

Reviewer 2: There are two types of assigning though: you can add new attributes or update existing attributes. For converting to slotted classes, only adding new attributes has to be forbidden.

While I like immutable objects in general, I don't think Twisted's design is prepared for that. I've had to update attributes after construction in multiple cases. While some of those might have been from improper API use or bad code structure, I don't think that covers all of them.

Author: > I've had to update attributes after construction in multiple cases. 

updating an attribute is fine, but adding new ones that Twisted never defined seems useless?

Author: going 'round freezing objects willy nilly seems a bit dangerous. But making everything slotted seems safe. Adding an attribute to an object that twisted is unaware of cannot be a public use of that object

Reviewer 2: I think we agree, but the text itself needs updating:
- applications adding new attributes is not supported, so Twisted can move to slotted classes
- freezing attributes should be handled on a case-by-case basis and will likely require deprecation of a setter property in many cases

Reviewer: Careful.  There are cases, I think, where people do depend on being able to attach new attributes on instances of Twisted classes.

In Klein, for example, I have seen (and written) code that attributes a user object to the passed-in `request` object (which comes from `twisted.web`), so you can hold onto something through a request cycle.  Whether that was meant to be allowed or not, breaking this now will create some non-trivial work (perhaps re-architecting stuff) for clients.

Reviewer: FWIW `mypy` certainly discourages use of YOLO attributes (I think by default), so once we have everything type hinted, that would be a tool one could use to at least identify some of these use cases upfront.

Author: @wsanchez I think twisted.web.request is ripe for being an @attrs.frozen class :D

Author: @wsanchez klein seems to use request.setComponent, which is explicit support for runtime instance extension

Reviewer: `twisted.web.request` is terrible. Try creating an `IRequest` and then describe how much fun that was. My goal in life is for Klein to stop using it but I've been thwarted by year-long review cycles and then I found type hints and other nonsense to gain more traction.

> Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide ``__dict__`` or ``__slots__`` compatibility between any release.

Reviewer 2: The note about being weak referencable seems to be out of place here. Also I'm a bit worried about the implications of this: if a class is only weak referencable by accident and not by design, having that restriction on it could cause significant difficulties when making future changes to it.

Author: Yeah I'm not sure where to put it. Probably in the "Changes Covered by the Compatibility Policy".

>  if a class is only weak referencable by accident and not by design, having that restriction on it could cause significant difficulties when making future changes to it.

It's basically a footgun in `__slots__`, I don't think there's a good reason to make something not weak-referencable, and you can't do it in pypy anyway.

> Without a __weakref__ variable for each instance, classes defining __slots__ do not support weak references to its instances. If weak reference support is needed, then add '__weakref__' to the sequence of strings in the __slots__ declaration.

more: https://github.com/python-attrs/attrs/issues/174

Reviewer 2: After discussion on IRC, it seems I misunderstood what it means to be weak referencable. So it might be worthwhile to define that term here, or link to a definition elsewhere if it already exists.

Reviewer: If the reference to weak references (heh) is removed, the title here should lose it also.

> Assigning attributes to a constructed object, or monkey patching, is not considered a public use. This is to allow creating frozen and/or slotted classes. However if an object is weak referencable, an application may depend on it remaining weak referencable
> Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide ``__dict__`` or ``__slots__`` compatibility between any release.

Author: ```suggestion
Adding new attributes to a constructed object, or monkey patching, is not considered a public use. This is to allow creating slotted classes.
Because of this, applications must not depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide ``__dict__`` or ``__slots__`` compatibility between any release.
```

just going to remove the bit about `__weakref__` if we can agree that all objects that could be weak reference-able should be.

Because of this, no application may depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide pickle compatibility between any release unless the object explicitly documents this as a feature it has.

Representations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The printable representaions of objects, as returned by ``repr(object)`` and defined by ``def __repr__(self):`` are for debugging and informational purposes.

> Because of this, no application may depend on any object defined by Twisted to provide repr compatability between any release.

Author: I also considered a note about how applications should also not rely on `eval(repr(object)) == object` compatability

Reviewer 2: Typos: "compatability" -> "compatibility" and "representaions" -> "representations".

Also, perhaps "applications must not depend" is clearer than "no application may depend".
